doc: net: Add doc how to test Ethernet bridging with native-sim (#78275)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: doc/connectivity/networking/eth_bridge_native_sim_setup.rst

.. _networking_with_native_sim_eth_bridge:

Ethernet bridge with native_sim board
#####################################

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 2

This document describes how to set up a bridged Ethernet network between a (Linux) host
and a Zephyr application running in a :ref:`native_sim <native_sim>` board.

> This setup is useful when testing Ethernet bridging feature that can be enabled by a
> :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NET_ETHERNET_BRIDGE` Kconfig option. In this setup, the net-tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This setup is useful when testing the Ethernet bridging feature that can be enabled with
:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_NET_ETHERNET_BRIDGE`. In this setup, the net-tools
```

configuration creates two host network interfaces ``zeth0`` and ``zeth1`` and connects them

> to Zephyr :ref:`native_sim <native_sim>` application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to Zephyr's :ref:`native_sim <native_sim>` application.
```

> First create host interfaces. In this example two interfaces are created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First create the host interfaces. In this example two interfaces are created.
```

.. code-block:: console

   cd $ZEPHYR_BASE/../tools/net-tools
   ./net-setup.sh -c zeth-multiface.conf -i zeth0 -t 2

> The ``-c`` tells which configuration file to use, the ``zeth-multiface.conf`` is tailored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``-c`` tells which configuration file to use, where ``zeth-multiface.conf`` is tailored
```

          inet6 2001:db8:2::1  prefixlen 128  scopeid 0x0<global>
          ether 00:00:5e:00:53:01  txqueuelen 1000  (Ethernet)
          RX packets 21  bytes 1340 (1.3 KB)
          RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame 0
          TX packets 45  bytes 3916 (3.9 KB)
          TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrier 0  collisions 0

Then create a sample and enable Ethernet bridging support. In this example we create
:zephyr:code-sample:`sockets-echo-server` sample application.

.. code-block:: console

   west build -p -b native_sim -d ../build/echo-server \
      samples/net/sockets/echo_server -- \
      -DCONFIG_NATIVE_UART_AUTOATTACH_DEFAULT_CMD="\"gnome-terminal -- screen %s\"" \
      -DCONFIG_NET_ETHERNET_BRIDGE=y \
      -DCONFIG_NET_ETHERNET_BRIDGE_SHELL=y \
      -DCONFIG_ETH_NATIVE_POSIX_INTERFACE_COUNT=2 \
      -DCONFIG_NET_IF_MAX_IPV6_COUNT=2 \
      -DCONFIG_NET_IF_MAX_IPV4_COUNT=2
   ../build/echo-server/zephyr/zephyr.exe -attach_uart

This will create and run :zephyr:code-sample:`sockets-echo-server` with bridging enabled but
not yet configured. To configure the bridging, you either need to use the bridge shell or call the

> bridging API directly from the application. We setup the bridging using bridge shell like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bridging API directly from the application. We setup the bridging using the bridge shell like
```

this:

.. code-block:: console

   net bridge addif 1 3 2
   net iface up 1

In the above example, the bridge interface index is 1, and interfaces 2 and 3 are

> Ethernet interfaces which are linked to interfaces ``zeth0`` and ``zeth1`` in host side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ethernet interfaces which are linked to interfaces ``zeth0`` and ``zeth1`` in the host side.
```

> The network interfaces look like this in Zephyr side:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The network interfaces look like this in Zephyr's side:
```

> The network interfaces look like this in zephyr side:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The network interfaces look like this in Zephyr side:
```

           224.0.0.1
   IPv4 gateway : 0.0.0.0

   Interface eth1 (0x80910dc) (Ethernet) [3]
   ===================================
   Link addr : 02:00:5E:00:53:87
   MTU       : 1500
   Flags     : AUTO_START,IPv4,IPv6
   Device    : zeth1 (0x8088368)
   Promiscuous mode : disabled
   Ethernet capabilities supported:
           TXTIME
           Promiscuous mode
   Ethernet PHY device: <none> (0)
   IPv6 unicast addresses (max 3):
           fe80::5eff:fe00:5387 autoconf preferred infinite
   IPv6 multicast addresses (max 4):
           ff02::1
           ff02::1:ff00:5387
   IPv6 prefixes (max 2):
           <none>
   IPv6 hop limit           : 64
   IPv6 base reachable time : 30000
   IPv6 reachable time      : 25158
   IPv6 retransmit timer    : 0
   IPv4 unicast addresses (max 1):
           <none>
   IPv4 multicast addresses (max 2):
           224.0.0.1
   IPv4 gateway : 0.0.0.0

The ``net bridge`` command will show the current status of the bridging:

.. code-block:: console

   net bridge
   Bridge Status   Config   Interfaces
   1      up       ok       2 3

The ``addif`` command adds Ethernet interfaces 2 and 3 to the bridge interface 1.

> After the ``addif`` command, the bridging is still disabled because bridge interface is not up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the ``addif`` command, the bridging is still disabled because the bridge interface is not up
```

> by default. The interface up command will turn on bridging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by default. The ``interface up`` command will turn on bridging.
```
is this referring to a command called "interface up"?

If you have wireshark running in host side and monitoring ``zeth0`` and ``zeth1``,

> you should see same network traffic in both host interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you should see the same network traffic in both host interfaces.
```

Note that interface index numbers are not fixed, the bridge and Ethernet interface index
values might be different in your setup.

> The bridging can be disabled by taking bridge interface down, and the Ethernet interfaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bridging can be disabled by taking the bridge interface down, and the Ethernet interfaces
```
